[Terra-Action-Header]Added Accessibility Guide (#3646)
cerner/terra-core: packages/terra-core-docs/src/terra-dev-site/doc/action-header/AccessibilityGuide.4.doc.mdx

import { Badge } from 'terra-action-header/package.json?dev-site-package';
import { Notice } from '@cerner/terra-docs';
import Whitespace from "../../common/layout-helpers/Whitespace";
import ActionHeaderExample from "./example/BackActionHeader"
import BackActionHeader from "./example/BackPreviousNextCloseActionHeader"
import MaximizeActionHeader from "./example/MaximizeCloseActionHeader"
import ActionHeaderAllergies from "./example/ActionHeaderAllergies"

<Badge />

# Accessibility Guide for Terra Action Header

## Why is this important?

> > Terra Action Header is an essential component used to identify a section of content and provide controls to manage the respective content. If Terra Action Header is not made accessible, it can prevent users from understanding content and necessary context to interact with the page.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> Terra Action Header is an essential component used to identify a section of content and provide controls to manage the respective content. If Terra Action Header lacks accessibility, it can prevent users from understanding content and necessary context to interact with the page.  
```

>

> >Action Headers provide a visual and programmatic presentation of content structure and convey a meaningful purpose to the section. Action headers also commonly use icon-only buttons that must visually communicate an action. In addition, the buttons must be intuitive and have a programmatic association to other words on the page to ensure a unique and descriptive accessible control name to allow speech input device users can use them. Screen reader users also rely on the added programmatic context to understand what precisely a control may do. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> Action Headers provide a visual and programmatic presentation of content structure and convey a meaningful purpose to the section. Icon-only buttons are commonly used to visually communicate an action. Therefore, the buttons must be intuitive and have a programmatic association with other words on the page to ensure a unique and descriptive accessible control name. This will allow speech input devices to utilize them. Screen reader users will also rely on the added programmatic context to understand what precisely a control may do. 
```

<Whitespace newline={2} />

## Accessibility Considerations:

### Code Considerations

> >Headings and the various heading levels separate page content and organize it in a meaningful fashion both visually and programmatically to ensure all users can understand the structure of the page. Previous patterns combined size and styling details to create visual headings of the page without the appropriate programmatic context to properly convey the page’s structure. Missing or inappropriate ordered heading levels combined with the visual styling often resulted in accessibility barriers to people using assistive technologies. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
>Headings and their various sub-levels ensure all users can understand the structure of the page by separating page content visually and programmatically to organize it in a meaningful way. Previous patterns combined size and styling details to create visual headings of the page without the appropriate programmatic context to properly convey the page’s structure. Missing or inappropriately ordered heading levels combined with the visual styling often resulted in accessibility barriers to people using assistive technologies.
```

>
>
>&nbsp;&nbsp;For proper accessibility to assistive technologies, developers must ensure that all headings on the page follow these two imperatives:  

> - Terra Action Headers **must always** follow the correct **heading level order and arrangement** for where it is placed within other content on the page. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Terra Action Headers **must always** follow the correct **heading level order** and **arrangement** for where it is placed within other content on the page. 
```

Reviewer: I know this may seem nitpicky, but highlighted words should be to the point

- Do not initiate any change of context or anything unexpected on focus or input of actionable elements. 
- Never override the visible keyboard focus state. Keyboard-only users rely on the focus state to see where they are on the page. 
- All actionable elements within Action Header must have an accessible name: 
  - Ensure the programmatic name of actionable elements matches the visual label of the element. Often, they are the same, but when an aria-label is used to create an accessible name, the aria-label value should be the same or similar to the visible name to ensure all users can access and activate it.  
    - For example, a button with an aria-label of “Submit” and the text label of “Send” would be problematic and create accessibility barriers for speech input device users.  
  - For buttons that use icons to convey meaning, it is critical to include alternate content to represent the icon's meaning.
<div aria-label="Example demo"> 
    <AccessibilityBackActionHeader/>
</div>
```jsx
import ActionHeader from 'terra-action-header';

> import DialogModal from 'terra-dialog-modal';

Reviewer 2: I don't see DialogModal being referenced anywhere. Is this needed?

  - Content creators must use standard, predictable design patterns that support user expectations. 
- [3.2.4 Consistent Identification](https://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG21/Understanding/consistent-identification.html) — Supports 
  - Terra provides the ability for elements to be consistently identified. 
  - Engineers must ensure that elements used for the same function are identified consistently, both visually (same icon for the same functionality) and programmatically (the alternate content behind each image consistently represents the same functionality). 
  - Content creators must ensure any icons used are used to represent the same function consistently. Additionally, the alternate content used to describe icons must be consistent for users to understand their function predictably. 
- [4.1.1 Parsing](https://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG21/Understanding/parsing.html) — Supports 
  - Terra components are tested and validated before release to ensure proper code parsing. 
  - Engineers must ensure their code is valid HTML. 
- [4.1.2 Name, Role, Value](https://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG21/Understanding/name-role-value.html) — Supports 

>   - Terra provides the ability for Name, Role, and Value attributes to be programmatically determined so as to be read by screen readers. 

Reviewer: Shouldn't these be lowercase? Either way, it'll be prudent to highlight these using monospace:
```suggestion
  - Terra provides the ability for `Name`, `Role`, and `Value` attributes to be programmatically determined so as to be read by screen readers. 
```

> import { Badge } from 'terra-image/package.json?dev-site-package';

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
import { Badge } from 'terra-action-header/package.json?dev-site-package';
```

import { Notice } from '@cerner/terra-docs';
import Whitespace from "../../common/layout-helpers/Whitespace";
import ActionHeaderExample from "./example/BackActionHeader"
import BackActionHeader from "./example/BackPreviousNextCloseActionHeader"
import MaximizeActionHeader from "./example/MaximizeCloseActionHeader"
import ActionHeadercontainer from "./example/BackActionHeaderContent"

<Badge />

# Accessibility Guide for Terra Action Header

> ### Why is this important?

Reviewer 3: Since the above heading is an `h1` this heading should be an `h2` and not `h3`. Remove one `#`.

<Whitespace newline={2} />

## Accessibility Considerations:

### Code Considerations
>Headings and the various heading levels separate page content and organize it in a meaningful fashion both visually and programmatically to ensure all users can understand the structure of the page. Previous patterns combined size and styling details to create visual headings of the page without the appropriate programmatic context to properly convey the page’s structure. Missing or inappropriate ordered heading levels combined with the visual styling often resulted in accessibility barriers to people using assistive technologies. 
>
>
>&nbsp;&nbsp;For proper accessibility to assistive technologies, developers must ensure that all headings on the page follow these two imperatives:  
- Terra Action Headers **must always** follow the correct **heading level order and arrangement** for where it is placed within other content on the page. 
- Terra Action Headers may sometimes be used to **label page regions** and should have the appropriate landmark role to ensure the programmatic context. 

> #### Heading Level Order and Arrangement 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
#### Heading Level Order and Arrangement _(always)_
```

> | _Bad_ [<sub>[1]</sub>](/components/cerner-terra-core-docs/action-header/accessibility-guide#linked-references) | _Good_ |
> |---|---|
> | `<h1>Heading level 1</h1>`<br />`<h3>Heading level 3</h3>`<br />`<h4>Heading level 4</h4>` | `<h1>Heading level 1</h1>`<br />`<h2>Heading level 2</h2>`<br />`<h3>Heading level 3</h3>` |

<Whitespace />

Headings create an outline for the content on the page, similar to a term paper outline or table of contents. The `<h1>` describes the page as a whole (and should be similar to the page `<title>`). A page should typically have only one `<h1>`. Headings `<h2>`through `<h6>` represent increasing degrees of "indentation" in our conceptual "outline". As such, it does not make sense to skip heading levels, such as from `<h2>` to `<h4>`, going down the page. Here is an example of content hierarchy with corresponding heading levels: [<sub>[2]</sub>](/components/cerner-terra-core-docs/action-header/accessibility-guide#linked-references)

> #### Labeling Page Regions (as needed)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
#### Labeling Page Regions _(as needed)_
```

      onClose={() => alert('You clicked close!')}
      onBack={() => alert('You clicked back!')}
      onPrevious={() => alert('You clicked previous!')}
      onNext={() => alert('You clicked next!')}
      level={3}
    />
    <br />
  </div>

```
  - Ensure any non-unique button label that is visually related to content on the page must be programmatically associated with its content. For example, a “learn more” button next to the word “allergies” must be appropriately associated with the word allergies. 
<div aria-label="Example demo">
    <ActionHeadercontainer/>
</div>

```jsx
import Button from 'terra-button';
import ActionHeader from 'terra-action-header';
import DialogModal from 'terra-dialog-modal';

<div>
        <DialogModal
          ariaLabel="Dialog Modal"
          isOpen={this.state.isOpen}
          onRequestClose={this.handleCloseModal}
          header={<ActionHeader text="Allergies" level={2} onBack={this.handleCloseModal} onClose={this.handleCloseModal} />}
        >
        <p>{text}</p>
        </DialogModal>
        <Button id="trigger-dialog-modal" text="Show Allergies" onClick={this.handleOpenModal} />
  </div>
```

 

> 

Reviewer 3: Remove extra lines

## Usability Expectations:
Users do not expect Action Header to be actionable. They would, however, expect any actionable elements within Action Header to perform the expected action based on the label of the element. 

### Interaction Details
Users do not expect Action Header to receive keyboard focus or be actionable. However, they would expect any actionable element within it to receive keyboard focus and behave in an expected and predictable manner. 
<Whitespace />
Mouse users expect the cursor to change to a hand with pointing finger when a Button or Link is hovered. Keyboard only users expect to see a visible keyboard focus indicator when an actionable element is in focus. 

### Keyboard Navigation

The basic keyboard navigation expectations: 

| Key/Sequence | Description |
|---|---|
|*Tab*| Moves focus on and off interactable elements. User expects elements to receive focus in the logical reading order of the page.  |
|*Enter*| Executes Button action.   |

<Whitespace newline={4} />

## Support Compliance:

### Primary criteria related to Terra Action Headers 

> - [1.3.1 Info and Relationships](https://wiki.cerner.com/display/UserExperience/1.3.1+Info+and+Relationships) — Supports 

Reviewer 3: Instead of giving the internal wiki.cerner links it is better to give w3.org links for all the support compliance criteria.

> - [1.3.1 Info and Relationships](https://wiki.cerner.com/display/UserExperience/1.3.1+Info+and+Relationships) — Supports 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- [1.3.1 Info and Relationships](https://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG21/Understanding/info-and-relationships.html) — Supports 
```

  - Engineers must ensure child elements added into Action Header have an accessible name, proper role, and value for the intended use.  
  - Content creators must provide engineers with names to appropriately identify controls added within Action Header.            

## Linked References:

1. MDN contributors (02 February 2022). ["Accessibility Concerns | &lt;h1&gt;-&lt;h6&gt;: The HTML Section Heading elements"](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Element/Heading_Elements#accessibility_concerns). Mozilla. First published 15 September 2020. Retrieved 24 February 2022.
2. WebAIM staff (01 May 2020). ["Semantic Structure: Regions, Headings, and Lists"](https://webaim.org/techniques/semanticstructure/#headings). WebAIM (Accessibility In Mind). Institute for Disability Research, Policy, and Practice.  Utah State University. Last updated 01 May 2020. Retrieved 24 February 2022.
3. Accessibility Guidelines Working Group (22 February 2022). ["Technique G130: Providing descriptive headings"](https://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG21/Techniques/general/G130). World Wide Web Consortium. Last updated 22 February 2022. Retrieved 24 February 2022.

> 

Reviewer 3: Remove these extra lines

import { Badge } from 'terra-action-header/package.json?dev-site-package';
import { Notice } from '@cerner/terra-docs';
import Whitespace from "../../common/layout-helpers/Whitespace";
import ActionHeaderWithDecorativeIcon from "./example/ActionHeaderWithDecorativeIcon";
import ActionHeaderWithInformativeIcon from "./example/ActionHeaderWithInformativeIcon";
import WebAIMSemanticHeadingContentStructure from './references/WebAIMSemanticHeadingContentStructure';
import ActionHeaderNonUniqueIcon from './example/ActionHeaderNonUniqueIcon';

<Badge />

# Accessibility Guide for Terra Action Header

## Why is this important?

> Terra Action Header is an essential component used to identify a section of content and provide controls to manage the respective content. If Terra Action Header lacks accessibility, it can prevent users from understanding content and necessary context to interact with the page.  

> >

Reviewer 4: nit: why this > is required !!

Reviewer 4: got it !!

> >Action Headers provide a visual and programmatic presentation of content structure to convey a meaningful purpose to the section. Icon-only buttons are commonly use to visually communicate an action. Therefore, the buttons must be intuitive and have a programmatic association with other words on the page to ensure a unique and descriptive accessible control name.This will allow speech input devices to utilize them. Screen reader users will also rely on the added programmatic context to understand what precisely a control may do. 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
> Action Headers provide a visual and programmatic presentation of content structure to convey a meaningful purpose to the section. Icon-only buttons are commonly use to visually communicate an action. Therefore, the buttons must be intuitive and have a programmatic association with other words on the page to ensure a unique and descriptive accessible control name.This will allow speech input devices to utilize them. Screen reader users will also rely on the added programmatic context to understand what precisely a control may do. 
```
